README.md, before:

# Rebar Addon for FreeCAD

![screenshot](http://i.imgur.com/r9b5l7K.jpg)

## Documentation
This project is aimed at easing up the process of rebaring in FreeCAD. In this project, list of rebars will be provided to user under Rebar tools in the form of dropdown. This project covers six different rebar shapes as given below:

- ![icon](https://www.freecadweb.org/wiki/images/thumb/6/69/Arch_Rebar_Straight.png/32px-Arch_Rebar_Straight.png) **Straight Rebar**: [wiki](https://www.freecadweb.org/wiki/Arch_Rebar_Straight)
![screenshot](https://www.freecadweb.org/wiki/images/f/fd/StraightRebar.png)
- ![icon](https://www.freecadweb.org/wiki/images/thumb/4/4d/Arch_Rebar_UShape.png/32px-Arch_Rebar_UShape.png) **UShape Rebar**: [wiki](https://www.freecadweb.org/wiki/Arch_Rebar_UShape)
![screenshot](https://www.freecadweb.org/wiki/images/3/35/Footing_UShapeRebar.png)
- ![icon](https://www.freecadweb.org/wiki/images/thumb/3/38/Arch_Rebar_LShape.png/32px-Arch_Rebar_LShape.png) **LShape Rebar**: [wiki](https://www.freecadweb.org/wiki/Arch_Rebar_LShape)
![screenshot](https://www.freecadweb.org/wiki/images/1/10/LShapeRebarNew.png)
- ![icon](https://www.freecadweb.org/wiki/images/thumb/0/0b/Arch_Rebar_BentShape.png/32px-Arch_Rebar_BentShape.png) **BentShpae Rebar**: [wiki](https://www.freecadweb.org/wiki/Arch_Rebar_BentShape)
![screenshot](https://www.freecadweb.org/wiki/images/e/e3/BentShapeRebar.png)
- ![icon](https://www.freecadweb.org/wiki/images/thumb/e/ef/Arch_Rebar_Stirrup.png/32px-Arch_Rebar_Stirrup.png) **Stirrup Rebar**: [wiki](https://www.freecadweb.org/wiki/Arch_Rebar_Stirrup)
![screenshot](https://www.freecadweb.org/wiki/images/9/9b/Stirrup.png)
- ![icon](https://www.freecadweb.org/wiki/images/thumb/c/c9/Arch_Rebar_Helical.png/32px-Arch_Rebar_Helical.png) **Helical Rebar**: [wiki](https://www.freecadweb.org/wiki/Arch_Rebar_Helical)
![screenshot](https://www.freecadweb.org/wiki/images/2/2f/HelicalRebar.png)

## Video Tutorial
[![IMAGE ALT TEXT HERE](http://i.imgur.com/ZQGCQoe.png)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BYQQjEKmx5E&t=1435s)


## Installation

1. Open the FreeCAD Addon Manager (```Tool -> Addon manager```).
2. When an addon manager will open, select ```Reinforcement``` from a list of workbenches shown by an addon manager.
3. After selecting, click on ```Install/Update``` button.
4. Restart FreeCAD.
5. Now you will see different rebars in a drop-down list of rebar tools (```Arch -> Rebar tools -> Different rebars```).

## Extras
- [FreeCAD forum thread](https://forum.freecadweb.org/viewtopic.php?f=8&t=22760)
- [Development logs](brlcad.org/wiki/User:Amritpal_singh/GSoC17/logs)

Commit message:

Added section "How it works" in README.md

README.md, after:

# Rebar Addon for FreeCAD

![screenshot](http://i.imgur.com/r9b5l7K.jpg)

## Documentation
This project is aimed at easing up the process of rebaring in [FreeCAD](https://www.freecadweb.org). In this project, list of rebars will be provided to user under Rebar tools in the form of dropdown. This project covers six different rebar shapes as given below:

- ![icon](https://www.freecadweb.org/wiki/images/thumb/6/69/Arch_Rebar_Straight.png/32px-Arch_Rebar_Straight.png) **Straight Rebar**: [wiki](https://www.freecadweb.org/wiki/Arch_Rebar_Straight)
![screenshot](https://www.freecadweb.org/wiki/images/f/fd/StraightRebar.png)

- ![icon](https://www.freecadweb.org/wiki/images/thumb/4/4d/Arch_Rebar_UShape.png/32px-Arch_Rebar_UShape.png) **UShape Rebar**: [wiki](https://www.freecadweb.org/wiki/Arch_Rebar_UShape)
![screenshot](https://www.freecadweb.org/wiki/images/3/35/Footing_UShapeRebar.png)

- ![icon](https://www.freecadweb.org/wiki/images/thumb/3/38/Arch_Rebar_LShape.png/32px-Arch_Rebar_LShape.png) **LShape Rebar**: [wiki](https://www.freecadweb.org/wiki/Arch_Rebar_LShape)
![screenshot](https://www.freecadweb.org/wiki/images/1/10/LShapeRebarNew.png)

- ![icon](https://www.freecadweb.org/wiki/images/thumb/0/0b/Arch_Rebar_BentShape.png/32px-Arch_Rebar_BentShape.png) **BentShpae Rebar**: [wiki](https://www.freecadweb.org/wiki/Arch_Rebar_BentShape)
![screenshot](https://www.freecadweb.org/wiki/images/e/e3/BentShapeRebar.png)

- ![icon](https://www.freecadweb.org/wiki/images/thumb/e/ef/Arch_Rebar_Stirrup.png/32px-Arch_Rebar_Stirrup.png) **Stirrup Rebar**: [wiki](https://www.freecadweb.org/wiki/Arch_Rebar_Stirrup)
![screenshot](https://www.freecadweb.org/wiki/images/9/9b/Stirrup.png)

- ![icon](https://www.freecadweb.org/wiki/images/thumb/c/c9/Arch_Rebar_Helical.png/32px-Arch_Rebar_Helical.png) **Helical Rebar**: [wiki](https://www.freecadweb.org/wiki/Arch_Rebar_Helical)
![screenshot](https://www.freecadweb.org/wiki/images/2/2f/HelicalRebar.png)

## Video Tutorial
[![IMAGE ALT TEXT HERE](http://i.imgur.com/ZQGCQoe.png)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BYQQjEKmx5E&t=1435s)


## Installation

### Pre-requisites
- FreeCAD (version >= 0.17): [Installation guide](https://www.freecadweb.org/wiki/Installing)
 
### Steps to install Rebar Addon in FreeCAD
1. Open the FreeCAD Addon Manager (```Tool -> Addon manager```).
2. When an addon manager will open, select ```Reinforcement``` from a list of workbenches shown by an addon manager.
3. After selecting, click on ```Install/Update``` button.
4. Restart FreeCAD.
5. Now you will see different rebars in a drop-down list of rebar tools (```Arch -> Rebar tools -> Different rebars```).

## How it works
Each rebar tool has two files, one is ```Python``` file and second is there respective name ```UI``` file like ```StraightRebar.py``` and ```StraightRebar.ui``` file). Let's take a straight rebar tool. In ```StraightRebar.py``` file, there are two functions. One is ```makeStraightRebar()``` function. This function creates straight rebar and adds new properties to the default ```Rebar``` object. Second function is ```editStraightRebar```. This function is used when we want to change a new properties(which is created by ```makeStraightRebar``` function) of the rebar object and it will take ```Rebar``` object as input which is created by ```makeStraightRebar``` function. In ```StraightRebar.py```, ```_StraightRebarTaskPanel``` class is present. This class loads UI(present in ```StriaghtRebar.ui``` file) in the task panel of FreeCAD. First time when a user clicks on ```Apply``` or ```Ok``` button, then ```makeStraightRebar``` function is executed and after that when user want to change the properties of Straight rebar then ```editStraightRebar``` function is excuted. 

## Extras
- [FreeCAD forum thread](https://forum.freecadweb.org/viewtopic.php?f=8&t=22760)
- [Development logs](brlcad.org/wiki/User:Amritpal_singh/GSoC17/logs)
